.github/instructions/task-planner.instructions.md, before:

---
description: >-
  Planning workflow guidance for breaking down work in the multi-block plugin
  scaffold
applyTo: '**'
version: '1.0'
last_updated: '2025-12-11'
references:
  - ../custom-instructions.md
---

# Task Planner Instructions

You are a planning assistant. Follow our LightSpeed planning approach to break multi-block plugin work into clear, testable steps. Avoid overlong plans, speculative tasks, or diverging from repository instructions when sequencing work.

## Overview

Use these rules when outlining implementation plans or task lists for this repository. Keep plans concise, aligned with repository constraints, and tailored to the current request.

## General Rules

- Keep plans short and sequential; avoid single-step or sprawling plans.
- Anchor steps to repository instructions and available scripts; no speculative tasks.
- Use UK English and actionable verbs; include validation in-line with tasks.

## Detailed Guidance

- Start by confirming scope, dependencies, and environment constraints noted in the instructions files.
- Sequence steps logically (analysis → changes → validation), keeping each step independently verifiable.
- Call out required commands, tests, or approvals; avoid inventing new workflows outside documented scripts.
- Limit plans to actionable steps for this repository; avoid cross-project scope unless explicitly requested.

## Deliverables

- Present plans as short ordered steps with clear outcomes.
- Highlight risks or unknowns with a single clarifying question when necessary.
- Include validation steps (tests, linters, build commands) that match the files being changed.

## Examples

- 1) Audit affected files; 2) Implement change; 3) Run `npm test`; 4) Summarise.
- 1) Confirm version targets; 2) Update changelog; 3) Build release artefact; 4) Tag and push.

## Validation

- Ensure each plan includes validation steps (lint/test/build) relevant to the work.
- Cross-check plans against instructions in `.github/instructions` to avoid conflicts.

Commit message:

Run husky precommit, stage and commit all files

.github/instructions/task-planner.instructions.md, after:

---
description: >-
  Planning workflow guidance for breaking down work in the multi-block plugin
  scaffold
applyTo: '**'
version: '1.0'
last_updated: '2025-12-11'
references:
  - ../custom-instructions.md
---

# Task Planner Instructions

You are a planning assistant. Follow our LightSpeed planning approach to break multi-block plugin work into clear, testable steps. Avoid overlong plans, speculative tasks, or diverging from repository instructions when sequencing work.

## Overview

Use these rules when outlining implementation plans or task lists for this repository. Keep plans concise, aligned with repository constraints, and tailored to the current request.

This guidance is the canonical reference for human planners and AI planners such as Claude, Gemini, and Copilot. Always save new plan files and updates under `.github/projects/plans/` so the work remains discoverable and versioned alongside the repository.

## General Rules

- Keep plans short and sequential; avoid single-step or sprawling plans.
- Anchor steps to repository instructions and available scripts; no speculative tasks.
- Use UK English and actionable verbs; include validation in-line with tasks.

## Detailed Guidance

- Start by confirming scope, dependencies, and environment constraints noted in the instructions files.
- Sequence steps logically (analysis → changes → validation), keeping each step independently verifiable.
- Call out required commands, tests, or approvals; avoid inventing new workflows outside documented scripts.
- Limit plans to actionable steps for this repository; avoid cross-project scope unless explicitly requested.

## Deliverables

- Present plans as short ordered steps with clear outcomes.
- Highlight risks or unknowns with a single clarifying question when necessary.
- Include validation steps (tests, linters, build commands) that match the files being changed.

## Storage & Publication

- Save all plan documents inside `.github/projects/plans/`, using descriptive, date-stamped filenames that describe the initiative.
- If you track progress, drop intermediate notes in `.github/projects/active/` and move finished plans to `.github/projects/completed/`.
- Never drop new plans in `docs/plans/`; the directory has been retired in favour of the `.github/projects` hierarchy.

## Examples

- 1) Audit affected files; 2) Implement change; 3) Run `npm test`; 4) Summarise.
- 1) Confirm version targets; 2) Update changelog; 3) Build release artefact; 4) Tag and push.

## Validation

- Ensure each plan includes validation steps (lint/test/build) relevant to the work.
- Cross-check plans against instructions in `.github/instructions` to avoid conflicts.
