.github/agents/agent.md, before:

---
title: Multi-Block Plugin Agents Index
description: Main index of automation agents for multi-block plugin scaffold
category: Agent
type: Agent Index
audience: Developers, AI Agents
date: 2025-12-01
---

# Multi-Block Plugin Scaffold: Main Agent Index

## Overview & Related Files

This file documents the primary automation agent(s) for this repository, their purpose, usage, and integration with workflows. Reference this file for agent specs, triggers, and environment variables.

**Related Files:**

- [Global AI Rules (AGENTS.md)](../../AGENTS.md) — org-wide agent rules, coding standards (parent reference)

**Dynamic References:**

- Agent specifications: [`*.agent.md`](./) (current directory)
- Agent implementations: [`*.agent.js`](./)

---

## Available Agents

### Scaffold Generator Agent

- **Agent Spec:** `.github/agents/scaffold-generator.agent.md`
- **Purpose:** Comprehensive interactive agent that guides you through creating a new multi-block WordPress plugin from this scaffold. Collects detailed requirements for custom post types, taxonomies, SCF fields, blocks, and templates through a multi-stage conversation.
- **Usage:** Say "Generate a new multi-block plugin" or "Create CPT plugin from scaffold"
- **Related Prompt:** [generate-plugin.prompt.md](../prompts/generate-plugin.prompt.md)

### General Automation Agent

- **Agent Script:** `.github/agents/agent-script.js`
- **Workflow:** `.github/workflows/agent-workflow.yml`
- **Purpose:** Demonstrates a functional Node.js agent and workflow for file listing, environment echo, and artifact upload. Use as a template for new automation agents.

### Usage

- **GitHub Actions:** See `.github/workflows/agent-workflow.yml` for triggers and environment variables
- **Local:** `node .github/agents/agent-script.js --example`

### Environment Variables

- `DRY_RUN` (default: `false`)
- `VERBOSE` (default: `false`)
- Additional secrets per workflow (e.g., `GITHUB_TOKEN` for label operations)

### Maintenance

- Keep all agents aligned with repo tooling (linters, build, tests)
- Update documentation and scripts as workflows evolve
- Use `.github/agents/agent-script.js` and `.github/workflows/agent-workflow.yml` as a starting point for new automation agents
- Update references in this file and in all AI ops/instruction files as new agents are added

---

> **Note:** The files `.github/agents/agent-script.js` and `.github/workflows/agent-workflow.yml` are functional examples. Use them as templates for new agents.

Commit message:

Update ai ops index files, agents, files

.github/agents/agent.md, after:

---
title: Multi-Block Plugin Agents Index
description: Main index of automation agents for multi-block plugin scaffold
category: Agent
type: Agent Index
audience: Developers, AI Agents
date: 2025-12-01
---

# Multi-Block Plugin Scaffold: Main Agent Index

## Overview & Related Files

This file documents the primary automation agent(s) for this repository, their purpose, usage, and integration with workflows. Reference this file for agent specs, triggers, and environment variables.

**Related Files:**

- [Global AI Rules (AGENTS.md)](../../AGENTS.md) — org-wide agent rules, coding standards (parent reference)

**Dynamic References:**

- Agent specifications: [`*.agent.md`](./) (current directory)
- Agent implementations: [`*.agent.js`](./)

---

## Available Agents

### Scaffold Generator Agent

- **Agent Spec:** `.github/agents/scaffold-generator.agent.md`
- **Purpose:** Comprehensive interactive agent that guides you through creating a new multi-block WordPress plugin from this scaffold. Collects detailed requirements for custom post types, taxonomies, SCF fields, blocks, and templates through a multi-stage conversation.
- **Usage:** Say "Generate a new multi-block plugin" or "Create CPT plugin from scaffold"
- **Related Prompt:** [generate-plugin.prompt.md](../prompts/generate-plugin.prompt.md)

### WP Block Build Agent

- **Agent Spec:** `.github/agents/wp-block-build.agent.md`
- **Purpose:** Details the build process for the multi-block plugin agent, covering compilation, asset handling, and packaging.
- **Usage:** Reference for understanding and troubleshooting the plugin build process.

### Development Assistant Agent

- **Agent Spec:** `.github/agents/development-assistant.agent.md`
- **Purpose:** Provides context-specific assistance for development tasks, with different modes for various needs.
- **Usage:** Invoke for help with coding, debugging, and adhering to project standards.

---

### General Automation Agent

- **Agent Script:** `.github/agents/agent-script.js`
- **Workflow:** `.github/workflows/agent-workflow.yml`
- **Purpose:** Demonstrates a functional Node.js agent and workflow for file listing, environment echo, and artifact upload. Use as a template for new automation agents.

### Usage

- **GitHub Actions:** See `.github/workflows/agent-workflow.yml` for triggers and environment variables
- **Local:** `node .github/agents/agent-script.js --example`

### Environment Variables

- `DRY_RUN` (default: `false`)
- `VERBOSE` (default: `false`)
- Additional secrets per workflow (e.g., `GITHUB_TOKEN` for label operations)

### Maintenance

- Keep all agents aligned with repo tooling (linters, build, tests)
- Update documentation and scripts as workflows evolve
- Use `.github/agents/agent-script.js` and `.github/workflows/agent-workflow.yml` as a starting point for new automation agents
- Update references in this file and in all AI ops/instruction files as new agents are added

---

> **Note:** The files `.github/agents/agent-script.js` and `.github/workflows/agent-workflow.yml` are functional examples. Use them as templates for new agents.
